The US is using a submarine
to send a message to Iran
to stay out of Israel's war against Hamas.
US Central Command posted this photo
of a guided missile submarine.
Apparently heading through the Suez Canal.
That's up contains up to 154
extremely powerful Tomahawk cruise
missiles on board.
It is very rare
for the Pentagon to reveal anything
about the locations of its missile subs.
Telling the world that this sub is now in
the region is a clear message
to Iran and its proxies
to leave Israel alone.
So let's bring in
CNN Pentagon correspondent Oren Liebermann
with more on this.
So despite being forthcoming
about these additional reinforcements
or and we continue to see an increase
in the number of attacks against U.S.
forces in the region, most
believe that they are
at the hands of Iranian proxies.
So what does that say about the type
of deterrence the US is using right now?
Correct. So let's deal
with both of those separately.
First, there's the issue of the submarine,
a guided missile submarine, an Ohio class
heading through the Suez Canal there.
And that joins a list of U.S.
forces, certainly naval forces
already in the region to carrier
strike groups on amphibious ready group.
That's more than 10,000 sailors right
there alone, as well as that submarine.
The Navy and the Pentagon are normally
very secretive about submarine operations.
So when you see them surface, it is very
much a statement as it is the case here,
the Ohio class sub transiting through
what appears to be the Suez Canal there.
A message
very much to Iran and its proxies,
but they have not been silent either.
The U.S.
has attributed many of the attacks
and we've seen 38 since October 17th
against U.S. forces in Iraq and Syria.
Many of those attributed to or blamed on
Iran and its proxies in the region.
Most of those have been carried out
by suicide drones.
One way attack drones or rockets
there have been about 20 minor injuries
to U.S. forces.
The vast
majority of those attacks were intercepted
by essentially defensive measures
at the U.S.
facilities.
In U.S. positions in Iraq and Syria.
But the barrage has kept up at a fairly
steady pace.
These are not large barrages.
These are almost sort of ones and twos
when it comes to rockets and drones.
But they are still significant
because that message of deterrence
clearly not getting through to the extent
that it's supposed to,
or at least to the extent
that the Pentagon wants it to.
So this is something
the U.S. is keeping a very close eye on.
Do these militias in Iraq and Syria
try to get more involved?
Do they up the pressure
and up the attacks on U.S.
forces?
That is something the Pentagon is watching
very closely be on.
This is we're getting word
now that President Biden spoke
with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu this morning to discuss
the latest developments in Israel
and its war on Hamas.
CNN Pentagon
correspondent Oren Liebermann, thank you
All right.
Want to turn
now to Israel's war against Hamas,
because what we saw over the weekend
may indeed have been one of Israel's
heaviest bombards months of Gaza.
The war torn territory
really getting pummeled
overnight,
both in the air and on the ground as well.
The IDF is saying that it has cut off
the northern part of the enclave
from the south, effectively
splitting Gaza into two parts
and warning that its forces will continue
to attack the enclave with strength.
Israel is urging civilians
to escape to the south in order
to avoid the airstrikes, but many say
there is just nowhere safe to run.
The death
toll throughout Gaza is skyrocketing.
The Hamas controlled Ministry of Health
says there are more than 10,000
Palestinians who have been killed
since the war began last month.
Most of them women and children.
The US secretary of state,
meantime, wrapping up a whirlwind
diplomatic tour in the region.
Earlier, he's been on this trip
so many times in the past few weeks
before leaving Turkey,
Anthony Blinken underscored the importance
of protecting all civilian lives.
We know the
deep concern here for the terrible toll
that Gaza is taking on Palestinians,
on men, women and children
in Gaza, innocent civilians.
A concern that we share and that we're
working on every single day.
We've engaged the Israelis on steps
that they can take
to minimize civilian casualties
All right.
CNN's Jamie Diamond joins us
live now from Sderot in southern Israel.
Jeremy, it is highly likely that the IDF
is going to be officially entering
Gaza City in the coming days.
Just walk us through
how the IDF expects that Hamas
is actually preparing for that moment.
Well, there's no question
that the Israeli military has prepared for
the fact that Hamas
has been reinforcing its positions
inside of Gaza City, which is Hamas's
stronghold in northern Gaza.
And, you know, over the weekend,
when I was inside Gaza with Israeli
forces, it was very clear that even though
they say they have cut off northern
from southern Gaza, the commanders on
the ground were very clear to me
that they understand that Hamas still
maintains extensive tunnel capabilities
below ground that allows their fighters
to flow from north to south.
And that also presents a danger
to those forces in the air
for potential ambushes by Hamas fighters.
And there is nowhere that Hamas
has more tunneling capabilities,
it appears, than inside the densely
populated urban areas of Gaza
City as of yet.
Israeli forces say
that they have encircled that city,
that they have cut off northern
from southern Gaza.
But what they have yet to do is go deep
into Gaza City to engage in what will be
the prospect of very bloody, deadly combat
in a very urban and dense environment.
But what Israel has been doing to prepare
for the possibility
of a significant ground
incursion into Gaza City is
it has been pummeling northern Gaza
with airstrikes overnight.
450 targets were struck by Israel's
military.
We watched last night as
many of those strikes were taking place.
Very bright
flashes of light, very loud booms.
And we are watching once again
as night has fallen here as those strikes
have resumed with quite a series
significant intensity.
Last night,
what we also saw was communications
in Gaza being effectively shut down.
Some of those have resumed today.
But it was notable to see that
because communications have typically
been shut down at very significant moments
in Israel's campaign against Gaza.
So we will see whether Israel decides
to actually go deep into Gaza City.
Clearly, they have encircled the area.
They say that they are establishing
a corridor
for civilians to flee from north to south.
We know that in the past
that has not always been a 100% guarantee
or close to it of safety.
For those civilians.
And so a lot remains to be seen
as Israel's military
campaign develops in the coming days.
Yeah, a lot of the civilians in the north
simply have nowhere to go either.
They have been told to head south. Jeremy
Diamond life was that.
Thank you so much.